[Music]
this is a film in which the city of lid
narrates its own
story it's the story of the nakba what
Palestinians call the catastrophe of
force displacement in 1948 the year
Israel was
created but it also offers an
alternative an imagined history it which
the knba Never
Happened a device say its co-directors
aimed at engaging audiences with a
familiar subject in a new way Sarah and
I are huge sci-fi nerds and we figured
okay let's see what happens if you know
stranger things or RI and Morty meets
nakba I don't know occupation can take
many things but one thing they can take
is your ability to imagine so they can't
take your imagination this alternative
Universe me mechanism that you chose
it's a reality in which Israel doesn't
exist how do you expect this conceit to
land in the current circumstances of
course I'm extremely concerned about the
rise in anti-Semitism which I do believe
is real for me it there's so much Jewish
presence in our film and so you know we
have this independent state of uh we
call it the greater Levant which is uh
Syria Palestine and Lebanon and into
this independent Palestine Jewish
refugees fleeing anti-Semitism in Europe
are
welcomed the real world has changed
drastically since the film was finished
the Hamas attacks of October the 7th and
the Relentless Israeli assault on Gaza
for Ramy Yunis a Palestinian citizen of
Israel it's a second knar they call it
willingly transferring the people from
Gaza but that's just another fancy name
for ethnic cleansing and the genocide
that's happening in in in in the West in
Gaza right now un says October the 7th
set off a tectonic shift to the right
within Israel impinging on free speech
for Palestinian Israelis after months of
relative quiet he and his co-director
are now speaking out about their film
once more here at its London premere a
fundraiser for a Palestinian educational
charity and later this year in more
planned events in the United States
Harry foret Al jazer
London make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer